# Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? [EggXpert/Newegg community thread citing Consumer Reports citing Kastner]

> Archived from: Manufacturers-That-Don-t-honor-Their-Rebates-9.webarchive
> Original publication date: 2008-09-11
> Author: HOGHAULER, Tracer76, JonnyFaster, Capt. Insane et al. (EggXpert community); Peter Kastner (tertiary-source citation)

---

## Original Document Text

SOURCE_URL: http://www.eggxpert.com/forums/thread/390295.aspx
MIME: text/html

EggXpert - Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? EggXpert The official Newegg tech support community and Newegg tech support forums. Learn about PC building, case mods, computer repairs, and computer troubleshooting. Get help from knowledgable community members about computer hardware and computer software, laptops, notebooks, netbooks, consumer electronics & mp3 players, home networking, lcd TVs, home audio and more. Welcome to eggXpert.com. Sign in | Join | Help in Newegg.com Suggestions (forum) Newegg.com (group) (Entire Site) Search Advanced Search Home Forums Chat Blogs Deals Newsletter About EggXpert » Newegg.com » Shopping EggXperience » Newegg.com Suggestions » Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? Last post 10-16-2008, 5:21 PM by Capt. Insane . 12 replies. Sort Posts: Oldest to newest Newest to oldest Previous Next 09-11-2008, 10:41 AM 390295 HOGHAULER Joined on 11-06-2007 Sparks, Ga. Diamond EggXpert Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? Here is a suggestion for you NewEgg, those manufacturers that are too cheap to honor their rebates or use a second party rebate company that is to cheap to honor the manufacturers rebates should be listed as a bad rebate risk on their product page! That way their sales drop and maybe they will get the message and those that do honor their rebates get a higher rating because of it. So far Corsair A+, OCZ A+, MSI B+, CoolerMaster A+, RaidMax F-, HIS F-, Gigabyte ?, Saphire? still waiting on them after 9weeks. what goes around comes around (RIG)GA-EP45-UD3P, Q9550 @ 3.5 ghz, HD2600XT512mb 128bit, 4gigs OCZ 1066 ddr2, Seagate sata 120 gig & a 320 gig, 2 Liteon sata DVD Burner,RaidMax Scorpion fulltower, Corsair 550watt PSU, 2ea 19" LCD monitors. --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 09-11-2008, 10:57 AM 390299 in reply to 390295 Tracer76 Joined on 04-10-2007 ˙looɔsɯƃ dıɹʇs ǝʞıds ɐ ʇǝs ǝɯ ǝʞɐɯ ʇuop Diamond EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? That would be a great idea for sure http://www.consumerreports.org/cro/money/shopping/shopping-tips/merchandise-rebates-3-07/overview/0307_rebates_ov_1.htm Rebates: Get what’s coming to you Rebates move merchandise and promote new products, so manufacturers like them--especially because they so seldom have to pay out: Four of 10 people who are eligible for rebates never collect. But consumers can find them frustrating. Peter Kastner of Boston-based Aberdeen Group, a technology research firm, says rebates go uncollected because consumers forget about them, miss the deadline for sending documentation, or don’t send all they’re supposed to. To be sure, rebates make you work. You must gather the serial number, sticker or label, original receipt, UPC code, and box top; fill out (letter-perfectly) an official rebate form; and do all of this by a deadline. The last requirement is patience: It can take 8 to 12 weeks to get your check. Companies say that fraud is a big reason they make you jump through hoops. The good news is that some companies are streamlining the process. Best Buy, Circuit City, and some other stores let you apply electronically and check your rebate’s status online. CR ’s take. To better your chance of getting a rebate: Read and understand requirements, including deadlines, before buying. Copy rebate materials and put them in a folder, in case the company rejects your claim or loses your submission. Record the latest date you expect the rebate. If the rebate form is available online, print it immediately after buying the product. The form might be removed from the Web site after a promotional period. Don’t wait until the deadline. If the company says something’s missing, you’ll need time to get it. Keep an eye out for your rebate check, which might resemble junk mail. If the check seems late, contact the company. If you’re left unsatisfied, file a complaint with your state’s attorney general or the Federal Trade Commission at www.ftc.gov or 877-382-4357. --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-14-2008, 9:40 PM 407152 in reply to 390299 JonnyFaster Joined on 10-11-2008 Embryo Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? Tracer76: Rebates: Get what’s coming to you... ...Four of 10 people who are eligible for rebates never collect. But consumers can find them frustrating... ...Peter Kastner of Boston-based Aberdeen Group, a technology research firm, says rebates go uncollected because consumers forget about them, miss the deadline for sending documentation, or don’t send all they’re supposed to... A "technology research firm" ? LOL ! Aberdeen Group is part of Harte-Hanks which supplies marketing information to ... <wait for it....> Manufacturers ! Lol ! Which explains why Mr. Kastner conveniently left-out the most logical reason why 40% of consumers don't get their money. The Manufacturers want to keep it ! By any means expedient. Duhr.... You could tell this article was going to be corporate fluff by the title, "Get what's coming to you" which turns attention immediately away from dishonest Manufacturer's and asserts that the consumers themselves must be to blame. BAD CONSUMERS ! You failed in some way, and (despite our most empassionedly expressed preferences) MUST (somehow, it's going to be SO difficult) KEEP 40% of your money ! And it's all your fault ! If you weren't such bad consumers, misspelling your own street address, and not knowing your own birthday, we would have had the pleasure of giving you all this money. Well, just keep buying, and practicing. Eventually you'll figure things out... lol........ --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-14-2008, 11:12 PM 407184 in reply to 407152 Tracer76 Joined on 04-10-2007 ˙looɔsɯƃ dıɹʇs ǝʞıds ɐ ʇǝs ǝɯ ǝʞɐɯ ʇuop Diamond EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? JonnyFaster: Tracer76: Rebates: Get what’s coming to you... ...Four of 10 people who are eligible for rebates never collect. But consumers can find them frustrating... ...Peter Kastner of Boston-based Aberdeen Group, a technology research firm, says rebates go uncollected because consumers forget about them, miss the deadline for sending documentation, or don’t send all they’re supposed to... A "technology research firm" ? LOL ! Aberdeen Group is part of Harte-Hanks which supplies marketing information to ... <wait for it....> Manufacturers ! Lol ! Which explains why Mr. Kastner conveniently left-out the most logical reason why 40% of consumers don't get their money. The Manufacturers want to keep it ! By any means expedient. Duhr.... You could tell this article was going to be corporate fluff by the title, "Get what's coming to you" which turns attention immediately away from dishonest Manufacturer's and asserts that the consumers themselves must be to blame. BAD CONSUMERS ! You failed in some way, and (despite our most empassionedly expressed preferences) MUST (somehow, it's going to be SO difficult) KEEP 40% of your money ! And it's all your fault ! If you weren't such bad consumers, misspelling your own street address, and not knowing your own birthday, we would have had the pleasure of giving you all this money. Well, just keep buying, and practicing. Eventually you'll figure things out... lol........ LOL you do not even know what you are talking about. --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-14-2008, 11:21 PM 407188 in reply to 407184 fatboyHD Joined on 10-14-2007 king of the rule breakers Diamond EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? hahahahahahahaha,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Never pick a fight with an old man. If he is to old to fight, he'll just shoot you,,, I.B.O.T.L --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-14-2008, 11:46 PM 407206 in reply to 407188 HOGHAULER Joined on 11-06-2007 Sparks, Ga. Diamond EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? That is what they want you to think we the consumer are a bunch of retarded dum as**s. But they are full of it I make copies of the paper work and they are on file until I receive the rebate, if I don't get the rebate I do not purchase their product again nor do I recomend it to others without telling them about the bad rebates they fail to honor. I will let you in on a trick I use those upc labels that are glued on I use a razor blade to get it off and then tape it to their rebate form and make photo copies as proof, then they can't say it was not with the forms. what goes around comes around (RIG)GA-EP45-UD3P, Q9550 @ 3.5 ghz, HD2600XT512mb 128bit, 4gigs OCZ 1066 ddr2, Seagate sata 120 gig & a 320 gig, 2 Liteon sata DVD Burner,RaidMax Scorpion fulltower, Corsair 550watt PSU, 2ea 19" LCD monitors. --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-15-2008, 11:53 PM 407678 in reply to 407184 JonnyFaster Joined on 10-11-2008 Embryo Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? LOL you do not even know what you are talking about. So then your position is that 40% of the MIR's are disallowed only because the customer has failed to do something correctly ? And why are you making this personal ? I'm attacking fraudulant Manufacturers, not you. -And-, for all I "do not even know", I can't help but notice the lack of information from you, old wise sage. Please do teach this young & aspiring grassshopper the ways of the world. How DO you explain 40% of MIR's going unpaid ? --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-16-2008, 2:18 PM 407991 in reply to 407678 Hemi345 Joined on 10-14-2008 Embryo Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? I'd say part of that 40% of them going unpaid are people either forget or have no desire to send them in. I have known some people that find jumping thru all the hoops to get a rebate not worth the $20 they'd get back. Sapphire is one company that if you don't follow the rebate process to a 'T', they'll deny the rebate submission. OCZ gives sometimes only gives you only a few days to get the rebate in the mail and state "postmarks are not valid". So unless you get the rebate in the mail the moment you receive it, your claim will be denied. HIS just takes their sweet time. I've never been denied, just usually takes a few months. I sent in a rebate for a HD4870 last month and just got an email saying i would receive my check sometime around Nov 24th. lol I believe it took 3 months for the rebates on my X1900XT and HD3650 too. Corsair has denied the rebate submission twice, therefore I never take their rebates into account when looking at their products... and since most of the time they're initially more expensive, they get disregarded and some other brand is chosen. Their rebate history has hurt their image for me and a number of other people. --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-16-2008, 2:53 PM 408006 in reply to 407991 fatboyHD Joined on 10-14-2007 king of the rule breakers Diamond EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? i for one have never had a rebate that i did not receive,,,i had one from OCZ denied for time constraints,,,went to their forum,,,and they were more than happy to give me an extension,,got the rebate,,,,if you don't follow the rebate instructions exactly as laid out,,you will have a problem,,,,i've gotten 5 different rebates from corsair without a problem,,,but there are some rebate companies out there that are definitely not up to par on there performance of getting your rebates to you,,,,,ya just gotta hammer 'em a little,,,lol,,,been a couple i had to hammer a lot,,,,keep copies of all rebate forms that you send in,,,,and i also send 'em with return receipt requested,,,that has helped me with several bogus rebate companies that said they never received my forms,,,,all of a sudden they mysteriously appeared,,,,, ,,,i'm a cheapskate,,,,i want my hardearned money Never pick a fight with an old man. If he is to old to fight, he'll just shoot you,,, I.B.O.T.L --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-16-2008, 3:18 PM 408015 in reply to 408006 Penewab2007 Joined on 08-04-2007 RockinRolla Baby Diamond EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? Forget the Sapphire rebate, thats myrebates411, an openly rip-off company that, for some reason, NE continues to allow to post rebates on their site. As far as I know, they've dragged them in once for not paying up, and their due again, b/c nothing's changed. The best rebate honorer? Apevia, I kid you not. These people will have your rebate back with 10 days (14 at the most.) Penewah! Box 1: i7 920-CO (D0 on the way)/EVGA E758-A1/ XFX GTX 285/PCPC 750W CF/ CM HAF / OCZ Plat 3X2GB DDR3_1600/F1 Spinpoint 640GB&320GB-SATA/HT Omega Striker/Xiggie DK 120/Vista64/ Build #2: Antec 1200/ E8500 @ 3.87 Ghz/Gigabyte P45-UD3P/ OCZ 4Gb Reapers PC2 9200/EAH4870 1GB/700W OCZ StlthStrm/ #3 Biostar 790GX/AMD 7750+x2 KUMA 3.3Ghz/mushkinBlack 4GB 1066 /1.75Tbs of F1 Spinpoint/Corsair 550W PSU/ --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-16-2008, 4:14 PM 408060 in reply to 407152 Penewab2007 Joined on 08-04-2007 RockinRolla Baby Diamond EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? i THINK WE SHOULD (oops) make a thread grading all these companies. remember, not all manufacturers do their rebates, there's a number o media promotions comapnies too. I'v ealways said, a company or manufacturer sees their name in bad on a list, and I guarentee you some changes will be made. First thing that should be done, is OCZ (and Status-now.com) should extend that stupid 12 day postmark deadline, how ludicrous. More to come. Penewah! "Rebate" sticky in the "shopping experience" folder??????????????????????????????????????? Box 1: i7 920-CO (D0 on the way)/EVGA E758-A1/ XFX GTX 285/PCPC 750W CF/ CM HAF / OCZ Plat 3X2GB DDR3_1600/F1 Spinpoint 640GB&320GB-SATA/HT Omega Striker/Xiggie DK 120/Vista64/ Build #2: Antec 1200/ E8500 @ 3.87 Ghz/Gigabyte P45-UD3P/ OCZ 4Gb Reapers PC2 9200/EAH4870 1GB/700W OCZ StlthStrm/ #3 Biostar 790GX/AMD 7750+x2 KUMA 3.3Ghz/mushkinBlack 4GB 1066 /1.75Tbs of F1 Spinpoint/Corsair 550W PSU/ --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-16-2008, 5:07 PM 408091 in reply to 408060 fatboyHD Joined on 10-14-2007 king of the rule breakers Diamond EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? good bro,,,,go for it Never pick a fight with an old man. If he is to old to fight, he'll just shoot you,,, I.B.O.T.L --> Report abuse Report abuse --> 10-16-2008, 5:21 PM 408105 in reply to 390295 Capt. Insane Joined on 04-06-2007 Golden EggXpert Re: Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? HOGHAULER: Here is a suggestion for you NewEgg, those manufacturers that are too cheap to honor their rebates or use a second party rebate company that is to cheap to honor the manufacturers rebates should be listed as a bad rebate risk on their product page! That way their sales drop and maybe they will get the message and those that do honor their rebates get a higher rating because of it. So far Corsair A+, OCZ A+, MSI B+, CoolerMaster A+, RaidMax F-, HIS F-, Gigabyte ?, Saphire? still waiting on them after 9weeks. I bought a mobo from MSI with a rebate and never got it. But to add to the list: Creative A+. Got that rebate in about two weeks when it said up to 10, plus it was in a handy dandy Visa card. And I second the A+ you gave OCZ Intel Q6600, MSI P6N 650i, 2x1gb OCZ DDR2 800 RAM, Sapphire Radeon 4870 512mb 1x112gb Samsung, 1x320gb WD, 1x160gb WD 1xSamsung DVD/CD RW drive, PC Power & Cooling 750W PSU, X-Fi Fatal1ty Champion, Logitech Z-560 THX 4.1, NZXT Zero, G5, VW222U 22" monitor http://www.writershall.wordpress.com --> Report abuse Report abuse --> Home Forums Chat Blogs Deals Newsletter About FAQ Terms of Use Privacy Policy Contact Us ©2009 Newegg, Inc. All rights reserved.

---

## Frictionless Data Package Metadata

> Auto-generated by Archival Ingest Skill v16

### Study Record

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| study_id | manufacturers-that-don-t-honor-their-reb-24e62e |
| title | Manufacturers That Don't honor Their Rebates? [EggXpert/Newegg community thread citing Consumer Reports citing Kastner] |
| author | HOGHAULER, Tracer76, JonnyFaster, Capt. Insane et al. (EggXpert community); Peter Kastner (tertiary-source citation) |
| date | 2008-09-11 |
| type | community-discussion |
| subject_domain | consumer-rebate-policy |
| methodology | community-forum, tertiary-source-citation |
| source_file | Manufacturers-That-Don-t-honor-Their-Rebates-9.webarchive |
| license | CC-BY-4.0 |

### Abstract

Newegg EggXpert community thread (Sep 11 - Oct 16, 2008) complaining about manufacturers failing to honor rebates. Tracer76 quotes a Consumer Reports article that in turn cites Peter Kastner of Aberdeen Group on why rebates go uncollected (consumers forget, miss deadlines, submit incomplete paperwork). Other commenters (Capt. Insane) dispute Aberdeen's characterization as a 'technology research firm.' Shows Kastner's reach into tertiary consumer-commentary through quote chains.

### Document Assessment

| Dimension | Rating | Rationale |
|-----------|--------|-----------|
| **Importance** | low | Tertiary citation chain (Kastner -> NYT -> Consumer Reports -> Newegg forum). Valuable only as evidence of quote-propagation reach of Kastner's Aberdeen commentary. |
| **Relevance** | low | Newegg-specific community thread from 2008 about mail-in rebate practices, now a largely vestigial retail mechanism. |
| **Prescience** | not-applicable | Not a predictive document — community discussion thread citing a pre-existing Kastner quote. |

### Prescience Detail

This study did not make forward-looking claims.

### Entities Referenced (6)

| Entity | Type | Status | Successor |
|--------|------|--------|-----------|
| Aberdeen Group | firm | dissolved | Harte-Hanks -> (brand defunct 2020s) |
| Peter S. Kastner | person | active |  |
| Newegg Inc. | company | active |  |
| EggXpert (Newegg community forums) | institution | active |  |
| Consumer Reports / Consumers Union | institution | active |  |
| Harte-Hanks, Inc. | company | active |  |

### Technologies Referenced (0)

| Technology | Category | Vendor | Lifecycle (at study) | Lifecycle (current) |
|------------|----------|--------|---------------------|---------------------|


### Observation Summary

- Total observations: 3
- By type: expert-opinion: 1, market-data: 1, strategy-classification: 1
