# Apple's Enterprise IT Battle Plan, Part Two

> Archived from: Mac-News-Enterprise-Systems-Apple-s-Enterprise-IT-Battle-Plan-Part-Two-2.webarchive
> Original publication date: 2004-05-24
> Author: Elizabeth Millard (reporter, MacNewsWorld); Peter Kastner (quoted source)

---

## Original Document Text

SOURCE_URL: http://www.macnewsworld.com/story/33937.html
MIME: text/html

Mac News: Enterprise Systems: Apple's Enterprise IT Battle Plan, Part Two E-BUSINESS | TECHNOLOGY | CLASSIFIEDS [NEW] | CRM | LINUX | MAC | ECTNEWS.COM Welcome | Sign In Enterprise Systems Business AAPL Financial International Legal Apple Juice Computers Enterprise Systems Desktops Notebooks Consumer Accessories Apple Retail iPhone iPod iTunes Store Security Hacks & Malware Mobile Security Security Updates Software Creative Tools Gaming Mac Apps Mobile Apps OS X Virtualization Reviews Reader Services Account Management Become an Affiliate Discussion Free Classifieds News Alerts Newsletters RSS / Headline Feeds Site Maps ECT News Network Map CRM Buyer Site Map E-Commerce Times Site Map LinuxInsider Site Map MacNewsWorld Site Map TechNewsWorld Site Map Search ECT News Network | Tech Blog June 16, 2009 01:39:50 PM MacNewsWorld > Computers > Enterprise Systems | Read Next Article in Enterprise Systems Please note that this material is copyright protected. It is illegal to display or reproduce this article without permission for any commercial purpose, including use as marketing or public relations literature. To obtain reprints of this article for authorized use, please call a sales representative at (818) 461-9700 or visit http://www.ectnews.com/about/reprints/ . Apple's Enterprise IT Battle Plan, Part Two Print Version E-Mail Article Reprints By Elizabeth Millard MacNewsWorld 05/24/04 7:40 AM PT "Locking people out of the broader ecosystem of development was a key sin," IDC analyst Roger Kay told MacNewsWorld. "Business didn't appreciate that." Memo to Digital Marketers: Be Strategic and Prove the ROI 5 ways that e-commerce marketers can support and defend their digital media spends, by showing demonstrable returns and business impact. [Download PDF: 7 pgs | 507k] In the first part of this story [Elizabeth Millard, " Apple's (Nasdaq: AAPL) Enterprise IT Battle Plan, Part One," MacNewsWorld, May 21, 2004], MacNewsWorld looked at how Apple has been attempting to enter the enterprise through its hardware, such as Xserve and Xserve RAID. Doug Brooks, Apple's product manager for server and storage hardware, told MacNewsWorld that the company has seen tremendous growth in Xserve adoption. He added that there is optimism within the company that Apple's hardware will find a spot in the budgets of IT departments into the future as well. Hardware, though, is only half of an enterprise push. For Apple truly to win a place in the corporate market, it has to be able to deliver software that can hold up to the industry standards. This is no easy feat, and some analysts believe that with all the marketing muscle in the world, Apple will not be able to do it. Can Apple gain a foothold in the volatile enterprise market with software as well as hardware? Serving It Up The Xserve might be slowly gaining a place in the infrastructure of some companies, but it was the Mac OS server software that came first, and made an impression, according to Brooks. "The server software began to establish itself slowly," he said. "But it did establish itself, and its success was the genesis of the development of the Xserve." So far, the server software has been used mainly in Apple's core markets of education and graphic design , but there have been some adoptions coming out of other areas as well. Brooks noted that federal government agencies have been interested, as well as those in the scientific and technical-computing arena. "We've made major improvements to the software over the last few years," Brooks said. "That makes for a very strong product line." Apple's Alternative Solutions Tom Goguen, director of worldwide software product marketing at Apple, said that Apple's growing enterprise software product line offers an integrated solution that combines an open source Unix distribution with the sort of testing, integration and management tools that make its complete enterprise offering a reliable alternative. In addition, Goguen pointed out that, unlike Microsoft (Nasdaq: MSFT) , Mac OS X Server has an unlimited client license. "Our philosophy is that, if you bought it, and you connect 100,000 users to it, more power to you," Goguen told MacNewsWorld. Apple's will release its latest enterprise software offering, Xsan, an enterprise-class file system, this fall, said Goguen. According to him, it will be the first enterprise-class, multi-seed SAN solution of its type that will cost under US$1,000 per system. Goguen said that Xsan is being targeted to the Apple's professional customer base, which includes the film, video and design industries, although Xsan is being targeted to general enterprise customers as well. Repenting Sins In terms of other business-geared software, consumers might appreciate Apple's office suite, but it is having difficulty finding a place in enterprises, IDC analyst Roger Kay told MacNewsWorld. "Locking people out of the broader ecosystem of development was a key sin," Kay said. "Business didn't appreciate that." Although Microsoft also offered proprietary software at the same time as Apple, Microsoft products were able to interact with other applications. Because Apple's software did not, it gained a reputation for having only closed systems. Also, Apple was slower in courting the corporate market, Kay noted. "They didn't have an office suite early enough, and that was a nail in the coffin for them," he said. "Because of that, business abandoned Apple." The company has not given up the fight, though. It has put a great deal of effort into beefing up applications like Microsoft Office for Mac. The 2004 version promises a new productivity suite that helps users create, manage and distribute projects. Potential Developments Apple is continually at work on software in several different business areas, including accounting, office management, marketing, network management, wireless and online business. "Apple certainly recognizes opportunities," Aberdeen analyst Peter Kastner told MacNewsWorld. "It may well turn up the heat in the coming year by going after specialized markets within enterprises." The year ahead will also mark the release of Tiger, the company's fifth version of its OS X operating system. In an interview with MacNewsWorld, Ron Okamoto, Apple's vice president of Worldwide Developer Relations, explained that the OS has attracted developers from different areas in the last few years. Gurus from the open source, Java, and Unix communities have been eager to work with OS X, and Okamoto noted that this could be important for future application development. "It's very interesting to watch these guys take code and, in a weekend, get it running on a Mac," he said. Long Road Despite the efforts being made to make Apple into an enterprise-class contender, many analysts believe that the company would have to make a major push to win over IT departments at larger companies. "Very big companies have huge [management information systems] staffs that can deal with designing, integrating, and managing very complex technology," Kastner said. "They tend not to want to use Apple, which is attractive to smaller companies." Indeed, if Apple is going to infiltrate the enterprise through its software as well as its hardware, small to medium-sized businesses are the ones that will be the entry point. Apple already woos this audience very seriously, and Kastner noted that it is gaining ground by doing so. "Apple has put emphasis on SMBs because it can show value through simplicity," he said. "Apple products are highly valued by companies with modest IT development and management capabilities." While Apple may not be able to conquer every office, it is not unreasonable to say that in the future, many more businesses will use Apple hardware and software than in the past. The company's fresh focus on interoperability and competitive pricing have made their products an option for companies that would have passed them by just a few years ago. "Apple has been very averse to attacking the broad enterprise market," Kastner said. "But they aren't going to pass up any opportunities, either." Social Networking Toolbox: ShareThis Next Article in Enterprise Systems: Apple's Enterprise IT Battle Plan, Part One Talkback: Be the first to comment on this story. Print Version E-Mail Article Reprints More by Elizabeth Millard Related Stories Apple's Enterprise IT Battle Plan, Part One (21-May-04) Newest Version of Mac Office Bridges Platform Gap (20-May-04) OS X Security Flaw Plagues Web Browsers (19-May-04) IBM Puts Forth PowerPC Development Tools (19-May-04) Apple's Tom Goguen on Mac Enterprise Computing (10-May-04) Related News Alerts Apple Activate Alert | Search Archives Microsoft Activate Alert | Search Archives More Stories by Elizabeth Millard Ken Xie of Fortinet on Fighting Content Threats (25-Nov-04) Microsoft Files More Lawsuits over Spam (24-Sep-04) French Firms Aim To Beef Up Linux Security (24-Sep-04) [Search More...] Don't miss a story -- sign up for our FREE e-mail newsletters and view the latest headlines at a glance. Tech News Flash [ View Sample ] E-Commerce Minute [ View Sample ] ECT News Network Weekly Newsletter [ View Sample ] Shortcuts Get Business and Technology News Alerts Most Popular | Spotlight Features | Exclusives This Week on ECT News Network | Podcasts WiFi Hotspot Locator Inside MacNewsWorld Free White Papers PDF security - a brief history of development Enterprise Performance Management for Finance IT Service Management Metrics That Matter Vulnerability Management Buyer's Checklist - Key Questions to Ask Before You Select a VM Solution Secure Internet Single Sign-On 101 MacNewsWorld Virgin Serves Up MP3 Buffet Glad Works Makes Marketing Moves Through iPhone Apps Safari 4 Goes to Eleven WWDC: iPhone Invigorated, Snow Leopard Spruced, AT&T Tarnished Should You Spring for an iPhone 3GS? TwitterFon Pro: Tweet Harder, Tweet Smarter Snow Leopard to Claw at Enterprise Front Doors The Sturm und Drang of iPhone Evolution New iPhone Features Are More Than AT&T Can Handle Apple Launches Speedy New iPhone, Cuts a Bunch of Prices E-Commerce Times The Multichannel E-Commerce Path Out of the Recession Jammie Thomas, RIAA Go At It Again IBM Offers Platform for Diving Into the Cloud IT Needs a New Drug TechNewsWorld Beware of the Information Security Inertia Syndrome Survey: As Web Use Climbs, Family Time Slips Playing a Hunch: Social Decision-Making Site Carves Out New Niche in Search China Scrambles to Repair Crumbling Green Dam LinuxInsider EnterpriseDB Smooths Way for Oracle App Migration Trolls and Astroturfers and Shills, Oh My! Yahoo's Hadoop to Run Free in the Wild Leeches or Users? Should Enterprise IT Have to Give Back to FOSS? CRM Buyer Administration Mulls Financial Services Industry Makeover GE Aims to Jump-Start EMR Adoption With No-Interest Loans Turning 'Interesting Moments' Into Sales: Q&A With Marketo CEO Phil Fernandez Chrysler Customers' Shrinking Service Options Sponsored Links Microsoft Office for Mac 2008 Get up to $250 off when you purchase any Mac. Save instantly! Careers in Internet Marketing SEO Strategist, Social Media Manager, E-Commerce Manager. Get started today! Think your data is safe? Register for a free assessment. Or get our ebook now. trendmicro.com/thinkagain WiFi Hotspot Locator WiFi Hotspot Locator --> City or Zip/Postal Code: Country/Region: United States Europe Canada Australia Asia South America South Pacific Middle East Inside MacNewsWorld Business Pre: iPhone Killer for a Day? Flanked by Rivals, Apple Revs Up for WWDC Apple, iPhone and the Coming Mobile Melee Computers The iTablet Cometh? MacBook Madness! Rave Reviews, Hacked Macs, 3G Thirst Apple Accelerates: New Guts, New Shells, Lower Prices? Consumer TuneUp: An iTunes Librarian, Archivist and Concierge Apple May Charge for App Double-Dipping Microsoft Goes Bing, Palm's Pwned ECT News Exclusives Keeping Credit Card Numbers Well-Cloaked: Q&A With Fingerhut's Mark Lieberg Outsource or Keep It Home? Have It Your Way: Q&A With Alpine Access CEO Chris Carrington Riding Out the Storm: Q&A With Information Builders CEO Gerry Cohen iPhone Japanese University Uses iPhones as Truant Officers Of Zune, iPhone and Pre: Sweating the Small Stuff Knives Out for the iPhone iPod Microsoft Sharpens the Picture for Zune HD Microsoft Disowns Zune Phone Teaser Tweets The Shuffle's Mad Margins, AT&T's Separation Anxiety, and Visions of an $899 iMac iTunes Store Spotify Mobile App Plays Tunes Even When the Stream Runs Dry OdioWorks Drags Apple to Court in Free Speech Battle An Xserve Lift, an iTunes Shift and a Gift Card Grift Must Read The Rise and Fall of Traditional Journalism, Part 5 It's Time to Push Back Against Twitter Backlash How Apple Made Windows 7 Better Reviews 'The Sims 3' for iPhone: How Large Can You Live on a Small Screen? AAA iPhone App Is a Handy Road-Trippin' Resource FreeShipping.org App: I Shopped, but I Soon Dropped Security Apple Update Swats Bugs Large and Small iPods, iPhones and the Enterprise Data Clampdown Spammers Bait Hooks With Fake iPhone Game Software Apple Pounds Palm, Sets Sights on Redmond Clampdown Week: iPhone vs. Pre, China vs. Web, FTC vs. Worst ISP Ever Apple Primed for iPhone Song-and-Dance Extravaganza Spotlight Features Toiling Away in 'White-Collar Sweatshops' - aka Call Centers Windows XP: The Legacy Lives On Taking a Shine to iPhone in the Enterprise ECT News Network Information Publications E-Commerce Times TechNewsWorld LinuxInsider CRM Buyer MacNewsWorld Free Newsletters E-Commerce Minute Tech News Flash ECT News Network Weekly Newsletter Newsletter Sign Up Reader Services Account Management Become an Affiliate Discussion Free Classifieds Linking Policy Network Map News Alerts RSS / Headline Feeds Search ECT News Network Locate Products and Services E-Business Info Center IT Resources Open Source Technology CRM Solutions Center --> Corporate About Careers Contact Us Business Development Permissions Reprint Information How To Advertise Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | How To Advertise Copyright 1998-2009 ECT News Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

---

## Frictionless Data Package Metadata

> Auto-generated by Archival Ingest Skill v16

### Study Record

| Field | Value |
|-------|-------|
| study_id | mac-news-enterprise-systems-apple-s-ente-59fab0 |
| title | Apple's Enterprise IT Battle Plan, Part Two |
| author | Elizabeth Millard (reporter, MacNewsWorld); Peter Kastner (quoted source) |
| date | 2004-05-24 |
| type | press-article |
| subject_domain | apple-enterprise-strategy |
| methodology | press-coverage, expert-opinion, competitive-profiling |
| source_file | Mac-News-Enterprise-Systems-Apple-s-Enterprise-IT-Battle-Plan-Part-Two-2.webarchive |
| license | CC-BY-4.0 |

### Abstract

MacNewsWorld second installment on Apple's enterprise strategy. Peter Kastner of Aberdeen Group sees Apple 'turning up the heat' by targeting specialized verticals (wireless, online business) rather than head-on assaults on Fortune 500 IT shops. Kastner argues that large-enterprise IS staffs gravitate away from Apple because they are trained to wrangle complex multi-vendor stacks, making small and medium-sized businesses the more natural beachhead for Apple enterprise penetration.

### Document Assessment

| Dimension | Rating | Rationale |
|-----------|--------|-----------|
| **Importance** | medium | Companion piece to Part One; captures Kastner's SMB-first enterprise strategy thesis for Apple at the Tiger-launch era, which framed subsequent trade-press coverage. |
| **Relevance** | medium | Apple's eventual enterprise entry came via mobile (iPhone/iPad BYOD) and SMB rather than via Xserve/OS X Server — consistent with Kastner's framing. Still useful as a primary record of the strategy debate. |
| **Prescience** | high | Kastner's SMB-first prediction and 'specialized verticals' thesis tracked with reality: Apple exited Xserve (2011) and large-enterprise server plays, but iPhone/iPad drove SMB and vertical (healthcare, retail, logistics) adoption that ultimately delivered enterprise relevance. |

### Prescience Detail


**Prediction 1:** Enterprise IS-staff affinity for Apple
- **Claimed:** Large-enterprise IS staff not inclined toward Apple; SMBs are the natural beachhead
- **Year:** 2004
- **Confidence at time:** high

**Actual Outcome 1:** Apple enterprise penetration path
- **Result:** Apple enterprise adoption came via iPhone/iPad BYOD and vertical deployments (healthcare, retail, logistics); Xserve/OS X Server plays exited
- **Confidence:** verified
- **Notes:** Validates Kastner's SMB/verticals framing


### Entities Referenced (5)

| Entity | Type | Status | Successor |
|--------|------|--------|-----------|
| Aberdeen Group | firm | dissolved | Harte-Hanks -> (brand defunct 2020s) |
| Peter S. Kastner | person | active |  |
| Apple Computer, Inc. | company | active | Apple Inc. (2007 rename) |
| Microsoft Corporation | company | active |  |
| IBM Corporation | company | active |  |

### Technologies Referenced (3)

| Technology | Category | Vendor | Lifecycle (at study) | Lifecycle (current) |
|------------|----------|--------|---------------------|---------------------|
| Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger | platform | Apple Computer | emerging | legacy-deprecated |
| Mac OS X Server | platform | Apple Computer | mature | legacy-superseded |
| Apple Xserve | platform | Apple Computer | emerging | discontinued |

### Observation Summary

- Total observations: 4
- By type: strategy-classification: 1, viability-prediction: 1, market-data: 1, actual-outcome: 1
